# Steps to Christ

The book Steps to Christ by Ellen G. White addresses several questions a person might have as one begins to know God and thought one's life.

Based on biblical evidence, the book begins by establishing God as the creator, how nature and scripture reveals God's love for man, how a perfect creation was separated from God by sin, and the redemptive plan executed by God to restore man to his own image.

Man was created perfect but thru disobedience sin, death and selfishness have entered this world, taking the place of love. Human nature became so weakened that it was impossible for man alone to resist the power of evil. The Son of God came to manifest the Father and to provide a redemptive sacrifice. His work was to do good, heal the sick and preach the gospel of salvation, showing love, mercy and compassion. He took man's nature in order to reach man's wants. He was never rude and did not censure human weakness. He spoke the truth, always in love. Every soul was precious in His eyes.

His sacrifice was not made to make God love man, but *because* God loved man. None other but the Son of God could accomplish our redemption. He was one with God and linked Himself to the children of men. He is our Sacrifice, our Advocate, our Brother.

The price paid for our redemption declares how valuable is man to God. The more we study the love of God for a world that did not love Him the more we will learn about His character, about His mercy, tenderness, forgiveness, equity and justice. However, it is not enough to know about God - we need to develop an intimate relationship with God, so our character will become like Christ's.

The more we learn about God's love for us and the standard of character we should live by, the more we are convicted of our sinful state. What then shall we do? Repent and be converted. Repentance includes sorrow for sin and a turning away from it. This change has to happen from inside out. The old man needs to die and be born again, least we make a shallow outward reformation to avoid the suffering from sin, but without any actual change in character.

As we are convicted our sins, we should confess them to God, who is just and forgiving. True confession is always of a specific character and acknowledges particular sins. Some might be brought before God alone; others might be confessed to individuals who have suffered because of them and yet others might be of a public character and require a public confession. Sincere confession and repentance will be followed by decided changes in the life. The whole heart must be yielded to God and we will be restored to His likeness. This is not a blind submission, but an appeal to reason, intellect and conscience. We must give up all that separates us from Him, considering that Christ gave everything for us. By yielding up our will to Christ, we ally with the power that is above all powers. We should then believe that God forgives our sins and makes us whole. Jesus promised that when we pray in His name and according to the will of the Father, we will receive it. His will is to cleanse us from sin, to make us His children and to live a holy life.

Many do not believe that Jesus pardons them personally, individually. They do not take God at His word and think they must earn the right to be blessed. This is a mistake. We should put away any suspicion that God's promises do not apply to us. Look up to Jesus and have faith in that He makes intercession for us and His sacrifice was enough to pay the price of our sins.

One might not be able to tell exactly when conversion happens. The experience changes from person to person. The character is revealed, not by occasional good deeds and occasional misdeeds, but by the tendency of the habitual words and acts. If we are Christ's, then our thoughts are with Him and sweetest thoughts are of Him. All we have and are is consecrated to Him. The evidence of genuine repentance is reformation. Duty and sacrifice become a delight. But we should guard that we do not try to keep the law on our own or that we fall in the error of thinking that Christ released man from keeping the law. Obedience is not a means of salvation but a result of it. When the divine love is implanted in our soul, obedience to the law of God is the natural result.

The condition of eternal life is now the same as it has ever been - perfect righteousness and obedience to the law of God. Before the fall it was possible for Adam to form a righteous character, but once sin was introduced in the human nature, we cannot make ourselves righteous. But Christ has made a way of escape. He lived on Earth amid the same trials and temptations such as we and yet He did not sin. He died for us and gave us His righteousness. Christ's character stands in place of our character and we are accepted before God as if we had not sinned. Christ changes the heart and as long as we maintain this connection by faith, He will work in us according to His pleasure.

This transformation of the heart is then reflected in the life of the believer in the form of good, self-sacrificial works, generosity and obedience. These strengthen the spirit of beneficence in our heart and align us closer to the Redeemer of the world. The only way to grow in grace is to be disinterestedly doing the very work which Christ has enjoined upon us- to engage, to the extent of our ability, in helping and blessing those who need the help we can give them. Since the world rejected the Master, when we work for the Master, we should also expect opposition and trials. Those should be met with careful study of the Bible and communion with God thru prayer. Prayer is the key in the hand of faith to unlock heaven’s storehouse, where are treasured the boundless resources of Omnipotence.

For our prayers to be answered, we need to feel the need of Him, we should be penitent and contrite, not keeping iniquity in our heart, we should have faith that Jesus will answer our prayers, not by our own merits, but by His and we should forgive others, if we want to be forgiven. And even when an answer seems to delay, we should cling to the promise that our prayers are heard and that God is too wise to err, and too good to withhold any good thing from them that walk uprightly. To claim that prayer will always be answered in the very way and for the particular thing that we desire, is presumption. Prayer should be a constant in our life.

As it nears its conclusion, Steps to Crist addresses what to do when we have doubts. God never asks us to believe, without giving sufficient evidence upon which to base our faith. His existence, His character, the truthfulness of His word, are all established by testimony that appeals to our reason; and this testimony is abundant. Yet God has never removed the possibility of doubt. Our faith must rest upon evidence, not demonstration. Those who wish to doubt will have opportunity; while those who really desire to know the truth will find plenty of evidence on which to rest their faith.

The book ends reminding us that in this life we will go thru difficulties and sorrows but that we should cultivate a grateful heart and not dwell in the bad memories. It is not wise to gather together all the unpleasant recollections of a past life, —its iniquities and disappointments, —to talk over them and mourn over them until we are overwhelmed with discouragement. A discouraged soul is filled with darkness, shutting out the light of God from his own soul and casting a shadow upon the pathway of others. When we seem to doubt God's love and distrust His promises, we dishonor Him and grieve His Holy Spirit. All have trials; griefs hard to bear, temptations hard to resist. Do not tell your troubles to your fellow mortals but carry everything to God in prayer. Make it a rule never to utter one word of doubt or discouragement. You can do much to brighten the life of others and strengthen their efforts, by words of hope and holy cheer.

We are to remember that Jesus taught that we should trust in God for our necessities, that we should deal with the problems of this life one day at a time. If God, the divine Artist, gives to the simple flowers that perish in a day their delicate and varied colors, how much greater care will He have for those who are created in His own image? This lesson of Christ's is a rebuke to the anxious thought, the perplexity and doubt, of the faithless heart.

We will rejoice in the fact that the redeemed will be welcomed to the home that Jesus is preparing for them and by and by the gates of heaven will be thrown open to admit God's children, and from the lips of the King of glory the benediction will fall on their ears like richest music, “Come, ye blessed of My Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.” 


- Non-participant: some kids become non-participants in some of the activities, for different reasons. Some might not be interested in a particular game or a couple of them they might hide in a corner to chit-chat about something. In the case of honors and classes, staff and other members of the club will bring those back, but in the case of games, in particular the ones that require more physical activities, we usually let them do something different if they don't want to participate.

- The "loud" ones: in the group there is always some that are more expressive than the rest; the program provides times at which kids can express themselves and these will usually dominate the talk if we let them, but staff and the kids themselves seem to know to be fair and give different kids a chance to ask questions, request hymns, express ideas and so on.

The willingness and eagerness displayed by the Pathfinders of the Sojourners club makes it very fulfilling to work with them.


